Migration from 5.x
====
.NEXT 6.x requires .NET 10 SDK and C# 14 language features. [C# 14](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/whats-new/csharp-14) introduces _extension members_ feature that changes the .NEXT API shape significantly. Now, the extensions can be expressed as extension members (properties and methods) for the existing classes.

# Core library
The following obsolete members are removed:
* `ConcurrentCache`, `CacheEvictionPolicy`. Replaced with `RandomAccessCache<TKey, TValue>` from `DotNext.Threading` library
* `DotNext.Buffers.Text.Hex` static class. Use [Convert](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.convert) class for fast HEX conversion
* `AsyncEnumerable` helpers removed in favor of [AsyncEnumerable](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.linq.asyncenumerable) class

## User Data
`GetUserData` extension method is refactored to `UserData` extension property:
```csharp
UserData data = obj.GetUserData();  // 5.x
UserData data = obj.UserData;       // 6.x
```

## Array Extensions
`IsNullOrEmpty` extension method is converted to static extension method to provide a symmetry with `string.IsNullOrEmpty` static method:
```csharp
int[] array;
bool isNull = array.IsNullOrEmpty();        // 5.x
bool isNull = Array.IsNullOrEmpty(array);   // 6.x
```

## Optional and Result types
`Optional.IsOptional` and `Result.IsResult` extension methods are converted to extension properties:
```csharp
bool isOpt = typeof(Optional<int>).IsOptional();    // 5.x
bool isOpt = typeof(Optional<int>).IsOptional;      // 6.x
```

## Random Extensions
`NextString` is no longer availble in favor of [GetString](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.random.getstring) method. Also, extension methods for [RandomNumberGenerator](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.security.cryptography.randomnumbergenerator) instance are converted to static extension methods:
```csharp
int rnd = RandomNumberGenerator.Create().Next();    // 5.x
int rnd = RandomNumberGenerator.Next();             // 6.x
```

## Delegate Helpers
`Converter`, `Func`, `Predicate` static classes are merge with `DelegateHelpers` static class. For instance, `Func.Constant` is a static extension method for `Func<T>` delegate type:
```csharp
Func<int> f = Func.Constant<int>(42);   // 5.x
Func<int> f = Func<int>.Constant(42);   // 6.x
```

The same true for methods in `Predicate` static class:
```csharp
Predicate<string> notNull = Predicate.IsNotNull<string>();  // 5.x
Predicate<string> notNull = Predicate<string>.IsNotNull;    // 6.x
```

`DelegateHelpers.CreateDelegate` overloads are renamed to `FromPointer` and marked as static extension methods for appropriate delegate types.
```csharp
Func<int> d = DelegateHelpers.CreateDelegate<int>(methodPtr);   // 5.x
Func<int> d = Func<int>.FromPointer(methodPtr);                 // 6.x
```

## Span static class
`void Span.CopyTo<T>(this Span<T> source, Span<T> destination, out int writtenCount)` is now available as the extension operator:
```csharp
Span<byte> source, destination;
int writtenCount = source >> destination;
```

## Epoch class
`Epoch` class is now sealed. There is just one `Enter` method that doesn't provide reclamation. If you need to force a reclamation, you need to call `Reclaim` method on the scope returned by `Enter` method:
```csharp
var epoch = new Epoch();
Epoch.RecycleBin bin;
using (var scope = epoch.Enter())
{
    bin = scope.Reclaim(true);
}

bin.Clear();
```

Also, the scope returned by `Enter` is now async-friendly.

## Intrinsics class
Members of this class are moved to `DotNext.Runtime.CompilerServices.AdvancedHelpers` static class, and marked as static extension methods for [Unsafe](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.runtime.compilerservices.unsafe) and [RuntimeHelpers](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.runtime.compilerservices.runtimehelpers) classes.
```csharp
int alignment = Intrinsics.AlignOf<int>();  // 5.x
int alignment = Unsafe.AlignOf<int>();      // 6.x
int alignment = int.Alignment;              // 6.x
```

`IsExactTypeOf` is converted into a static extension method within `BasicExtensions` class.

## Reflection
`List.Indexer<T>` and `Dictionary.Indexer<TKey, TValue>` inner classes are moved to `CollectionType` and `DictionaryType` as static extension methods:
```csharp
Func<IReadOnlyList<string>, int, string> indexer = List.Indexer<string>.ReadOnly;   // 5.x
Func<IReadOnlyList<string>, int, string> indexer = IReadOnlyList<string>.Indexer;   // 6.x
```

## StreamSource class
Its factory methods are converted to static extension methods for [Stream](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.io.stream) class:
```csharp
Stream s = StreamSource.AsStream(new byte[] { 10, 20 });    // 5.x
Stream s = Stream.Create(new byte[] { 10, 20 });            // 6.x
```

## Atomic.Boolean type
The type is no longer needed due to presence of necessary method in [Interlocked](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.threading.interlocked) class. `FalseToTrue` and `TrueToFalse` methods are exposed as static extension methods for `Interlocked` class.
```csharp
bool value;
Interlocked.FalseToTrue(ref value);
```

## ServiceProviderFactory class
To override the service from the underlying [IServiceProvider](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.iserviceprovider) instance, use `Override` extension method rather than `Create` factory method which is removed. `FromTuple` is converted to static extension method:
```csharp
IServiceProvider provider = IServiceProvider.Create<(string, int)>(("Service", 42));
```

## LockAcquisition
All the methods are moved into `Lock` class.

## EnumConverter
`EnumConverter` is replaced with `DotNext.Numerics.Enum<T>` type.

## Range Endpoints
`Enclosed()` and `Disclosed()` extension method are replaced with extension properties:
```csharp
bool r = 42.IsBetween(40.Enclosed, 43.Disclosed);
```

## MemoryAllocator<T> delegate
`MemoryAllocator<T>` delegate has extension property `Default` that can be used to obtain the default allocator. `AllocateExactly` and `AllocateAtLeast` don't accept nullable allocator anymore. These methods expect non-nullable allocator. It's possible to use `DefaultIfNull` to fix the nullability issue:
```csharp
static void M(MemoryAllocator<byte>? allocator)
{
    using MemoryOwner<byte> owner = allocator.DefaultIfNull.AllocateExactly(64);
    // or
    allocator ??= MemoryAllocator<byte>.Default;
    using MemoryOwner<byte> owner = allocator.AllocateExactly(64);
}
```

# Threading
The following obsolete members are removed:
* `LinkedTokenSourceFactory` static class and its extension methods. Use `CancellationTokenMultiplexer` instead.

## AsyncLockAcquisition
All the methods are moved into `AsyncLock` class.

## AsyncBridge class
`AsyncBridge.WaitAnyAsync` is moved to `CancellationTokenMultiplexer` which is now a single entry point to work with combined cancellation tokens

## IndexPool value type
`IndexPool` is no longer a value type. It's converted to class and the limitation on the maximum number to be returned from the pool is removed. The capacity of `IndexPool` is customizable. If you're using it to organize custom object pool, consider `BoundedObjectPool<T>` class instead, which is more convenient. `IndexPool` remains available for special situations, when you need to know whether the object is really taken from the pool or created on-the-fly.

## CancellationTokenMultiplexer class
`CancellationTokenMultiplexer` class is converted to value type. Also, it has new `WaitAnyAsync` method that utilizes internal pool of cancellation token sources.

# IO
Encoding string interpolation helpers are moved to Core library, `DotNext.Text` namespace.

`DuplexStream` is no longer available, but can be construced by using `PipeExtensions.AsStream` extension method.

## SequenceReader type
It's moved from `DotNext.IO` to `DotNext.Buffers` namespace. Also, it cannot be construced by using `IAsyncBinaryReader.Create` factory method. Instead, the constructor of `SequenceReader` must be used.

## TextStreamExtensions class
Most of the factory methods exposed by `TextStreamExtensions` are converted to static extension methods:
```csharp
ReadOnlySequence<char> sequence;
TextReader reader = sequence.AsTextReader();        // 5.x
TextReader reader = TextReader.Create(sequence);    // 6.x
```

## IAsyncBinaryReader and IAsyncBinaryWriter
`IAsyncBinaryReader.Create` and `IAsyncBinaryWriter.Create` methods are transformed into static extension methods. To call `Create` overload with `PipeWriter` parameter type, it's required to import `DotNext.IO.Pipelines` namespace.

# Metaprogramming
`Const()` extension method is renamed to `Quoted` extension property.

# Raft
`MemoryBasedStateMachine` and `DiskBasedStateMachine` are removed in favor of high-performance and flexible `WriteAheadLog` class as announced [here](https://github.com/dotnet/dotNext/discussions/263). `WriteAheadLog` is no longer marked as experimental. These WALs are not binary-compatible. Moreover, `WriteAheadLog` from 5.x is not compatible with its counterpart in 6.x.

## Migration from MemoryBasedStateMachine
To do that, you need to use version 5.x and write a migration of the log entries manually from the class that derives from `MemoryBasedStateMachine` and `WriteAheadLog` which is marked as experimental. Both classes implement the same `IPersistentState` interface. There are the steps to do a migration:
1. Implement `IStateMachine` to provide a storage for the snapshot. Or you can reuse `SimpleStateMachine` as its base implementation
2. Iterate over all log entries in `MemoryBasedStateMachine` and append them to `WriteAheadLog` instance

Now you can migrate `WriteAheadLog` from 5.x to 6.x by following the steps in from the next chapter.

## Migration from experimental WriteAheadLog
`WriteAheadLog` from 5.x and 6.x are almost identical except the timestamps associated with every log entry. In 6.x, for the performance reasons, the support of timestamps are removed. Therefore, these logs are binary icompatible. However, you can opt-in the compatibility with `DotNext.IO.WriteAheadLog.IgnoreTimestamp` feature switch. To do that, go to **CSPROJ** file and add the switch:
```xml
<ItemGroup>
  <RuntimeHostConfigurationOption
      Include="DotNext.IO.WriteAheadLog.IgnoreTimestamp"
      Value="false" />
</ItemGroup>
```

The feature switch forces to interpret the space on the disk related to timestamps correctly. Thus, you can use a log created by `WriteAheadLog` class in 5.x. For a new log, this option is not recommended. By default, the log doesn't store or parse timestamps.